elizabeth: who are you?

booker: my name is dewitt. i'm a friend. i've come to ge
elizabeth: get away.

[she quits resisting after a few moments.]

elizabeth: are 
elizabeth: are you real?

booker: i'm real enough.

[a weird whistle alarm sounds
elizabeth: he's coming...y-you've gotta go.

booker: why?

elizabeth: you don't w
elizabeth: you don't wanna be here when he gets here.

[she yells at the hole boo
elizabeth: just a minute! i'm getting dressed!

booker: i can get you outta here.
elizabeth: there's no way out, trust me, i've looked.

[she yells at the ceiling 
elizabeth: stop it! you're too impatient! that's enough!

booker: w-what about th
elizabeth: what about it?

booker: this is the way out, isn't it?

elizabeth: w-w
elizabeth: w-what are you...? give it to me!

[a weird chirping noise rings out a
elizabeth: huh... it's a way out! come on, this way!

[the building shakes.]

eli
elizabeth: it's his job to keep me locked up in here!

booker: we'll see about th
elizabeth: who are you? why did you come here? this way, come on!

booker: wait!

elizabeth: hurry!

booker: call the elevator!

elizabeth: what?

booker: the hell
elizabeth: what?

booker: the hell is that thing?! press the button!

[as they wa
elizabeth: what is all this? they were watching me? all this time... why? why
   
elizabeth: we have to keep moving! he's tearing the building apart!

[they start 
elizabeth!

elizabeth: how do you know my name?

booker: not now.

elizabeth: hur
elizabeth: how do you know my name?

booker: not now.

elizabeth: hurry! there's 
elizabeth: hurry! there's a door up here!

booker: out of the way, let me try.

e
elizabeth: which way?!

booker: up!

[out on the exterior, they can see the robot
elizabeth: bring us the girl...and wipe away the debt.

male voice: are you in th
elizabeth: no, it's me, elizabeth. are you alright?

booker: where am i?

elizabe
elizabeth. are you alright?

booker: where am i?

elizabeth: back in the land of 
elizabeth: back in the land of the living. here, let me...

booker: i'll be fine.
elizabeth: you almost drowned, you need to--

booker: i said, i'm fine...just, ju
elizabeth: do you hear that? it's music!

booker: go on...i just...just need to..
elizabeth: okay, i won't be long. i won't be long, mr. dewitt.

[booker conks out
elizabeth!

elizabeth: hello! oh, this is wonderful! oh, come dance with me, mr. 
elizabeth: hello! oh, this is wonderful! oh, come dance with me, mr. dewitt!

boo
elizabeth: why? what could be better than this?

booker: well...how 'bout paris?

elizabeth: paris? i...don't understand. how can we get there?

booker: well, it's
elizabeth: no, let's go! c'mon, let's go! c'mon, let's go right now!

[they conti
elizabeth: i'm out. it's hard to believe but it's true, isn't it? oh, can you
   
elizabeth: mr. dewitt... comstock. i've read about him. they say he can see the
 
elizabeth: i don't like his look.

shopkeep: can you dislike the look of the prop
elizabeth: can we leave now?

[they continue upstairs.]

elizabeth: huh, that fal
elizabeth: huh, that fall into the water did you no favors. i'll keep an eye
    
elizabeth: mr. dewitt, here! come look at these!

[the strange man and woman comb
elizabeth looks at their brooches; they have a bird and cage insignia.]

elizabet
elizabeth: look at these, they're amazing! which one do you like more? this
     
elizabeth: are you sure?

           booker: i'm sure.

           elizabeth: i l
elizabeth: i love it!

           lady: surprising. i expected the cage.

       
elizabeth: are you sure?

           booker: i'm sure.

           elizabeth: i l
elizabeth: i love it!

           gentleman: i expected the bird.

           lad
elizabeth, and a frightened crowd, watches her old tower in ruins.]

elizabeth: m
elizabeth: my god...look.

booker: you alright?

elizabeth: it was my home.

book
elizabeth: it was my home.

booker: we should get out of here.

elizabeth: let's 
elizabeth: let's go.

[the arcade nearby has an active police checkpoint. they fr
elizabeth: i have just the thing. come on.

[she leads him to a door out of the c
elizabeth: you're a roguish type, what does it look like? done!

[she manages to 
elizabeth: trapped in a tower with nothing but books and spare time? you would
  
elizabeth: hey. i found these silver eagles...there's a vending device over
     
elizabeth: what's that?

vendor: hey, here you go, little miss. cotton candy, her
elizabeth: mmmm. mmmm! this is amazing. how have i never tried this? ...i can't
 
elizabeth: why is one bathroom for colors and one for whites?

booker: it just is
elizabeth: seems like an unnecessary complication.

[they head toward the gondola
elizabeth: hey! flawless flintlock. the newest one in the series. i read it
     
elizabeth: excuse me?

woman: annabelle, it's me, esther!

elizabeth: oh, no, i'm
elizabeth: oh, no, i'm not annabelle.

esther: are you sure?

elizabeth: my name 
elizabeth: my name is elizabeth. do i know you?

esther: elizabeth? isn't that a 
elizabeth. do i know you?

esther: elizabeth? isn't that a lovely name?

[she lea
elizabeth? isn't that a lovely name?

[she leaves.]

elizabeth: that was odd.

[t
elizabeth: that was odd.

[they also go through the turnstiles.]

policeman: last
elizabeth: hey, mister, you're gonna get mustard all over your nice suit!

clerk:
elizabeth: what are you doing?!

esther: get the girl!

elizabeth: get off of me!
elizabeth: get off of me!

[booker kills the fake civilians in their ambush.]

el
elizabeth: get away from me! let me out! i want out of here now!

booker: elizabe
elizabeth!

elizabeth: stay away from me!

[she slips through the bars, fleeing a
elizabeth: stay away from me!

[she slips through the bars, fleeing ahead.]

book
elizabeth!

[he fights off more policemen.]

booker: where is she? ahh, great.

[
elizabeth: get away from me!

booker: hey, come back here!

[he finds her on the 
elizabeth: you killed those people. i can't believe you did that...they're
      
elizabeth, i--

elizabeth: you're a monster!

booker: what did you think was gonn
elizabeth: you're a monster!

booker: what did you think was gonna happen? hmmm?

elizabeth: what?

booker: do you understand the expense people went through to ke
elizabeth: what do...what do they want from me?

booker: i don't know.

        i
elizabeth: you're bleeding. c'mere.

        if clerk stabbed booker
        â¯â¯
elizabeth: l-let me see your hand.

[she tends to his wound.]

elizabeth: what ha
elizabeth: what happened back there, that...that's not the last of it, is it?

bo
elizabeth: there. i suppose i best get used to it. you know, i've read a thing
  
elizabeth: "soldier's field, built in 1903 by the hand of our prophet."

booker: 
elizabeth: the place is themed to acquaint children with national service.

booke
elizabeth: "train up a child in the way he should go, even when he is old he
    
elizabeth: no.

[a gate near them shorts out.]

elizabeth: the gate's shut up tig
elizabeth: the gate's shut up tight. now how are we going to get to the
         
elizabeth: "shock jockey. who needs the power company?"

booker: some fool's alte
elizabeth: doesn't seem to work very well.

[as they get outside, they see a mass
elizabeth: and that will take us to paris?

booker: just stay close.

elizabeth: 
elizabeth: yes, mr. dewitt.

booker: call me booker.

elizabeth: oh, a-alright. b
elizabeth: oh, a-alright. booker. should we head to the gondola, or take a look
 
elizabeth: do you know why you were hired to come and get me?

booker: i imagine 
elizabeth: why you?

booker: i never even heard of this place before i got here.

elizabeth: huh...i assumed columbia was common knowledge below.

booker: guess i 
elizabeth: what are you, mr. dewitt? some sort of...?

booker: i'm a, uh, indepen
elizabeth: pinkertons... weren't they the ones they'd call in to settle things
  
elizabeth: are you interested in gardening, mr. dewitt?

booker: they frown on ga
elizabeth: and where is that.

booker: the part with no gardens.

elizabeth: so, 
elizabeth: so, mr. dewitt, is there a woman in your life?

booker: there was...sh
elizabeth: how?

booker: giving birth.

elizabeth: oh...you have a child?

booker
elizabeth: oh...you have a child?

booker: no.

[a theater nearby is putting on a
elizabeth: look! duke and dimwit! you know..."remember, boys and girls, don't
   
elizabeth: oh, i loved those stories when i was a kid. but they are...they are
  
elizabeth: hmm.

booker: what?

elizabeth: i was just imagining you...on the caro
elizabeth: i was just imagining you...on the carousel.

[they walk to the gondola
elizabeth: these seem to be the controls that summon her.

[the controls short ou
elizabeth: looks like this runs exclusively on shock jockey.

booker: of course i
elizabeth: look! "come see the future of power at the hall of heroes."

booker: a
elizabeth: "hall of heroes closed until further notice..."

booker: then there wo
elizabeth: is something wrong?

booker: ahhh, nothin' i can't fix.

elizabeth: ag
elizabeth: agh! oh, it's a bee. i-i hate these things!

booker: ah, jeez, just ki
elizabeth: no, it'll sting me!

booker: elizabeth!

elizabeth: i have a better id
elizabeth!

elizabeth: i have a better idea.

booker: what are you doing?

elizab
elizabeth: i have a better idea.

booker: what are you doing?

elizabeth: i'm ope
elizabeth: i'm opening a tear!

[she opens a portal with her hands.]

booker: who
elizabeth: it's a tear. i used to open them all the time in my tower.

booker: b-
elizabeth: it's like a-a...a window. a window to another world. most of the
     
elizabeth: there.

booker: good god. i don't suppose you've got an airship in the
elizabeth: i don't think so. but there is...th-there is something...i-- oh no!

[
elizabeth's tear.]

booker: close it!

elizabeth: i-i'm trying!

booker: close it
elizabeth: i-i'm trying!

booker: close it!

[the tear disappears before songbird
elizabeth: but i could help...

booker: i can handle whatever comes along. trust 
elizabeth: have it your way, i suppose.

[beyond, the two find some troops on sky
elizabeth: well there has to be a tear around for me to use...i can't just
      
elizabeth: who's that?

booker: slate? i actually know the fella. seems he's stil
elizabeth: oh. it's a code book for a cipher. a secret message from the vox
     
elizabeth: the cipher should be around somewhere.

[at the fellow traveler, they 
elizabeth: booker, look! that's what the codebook deciphers, i'm sure of it!

boo
elizabeth: let's see..."tip the hat to the vox".

booker: well, there must be mor
elizabeth: indeed.

[the secret room has posters of a black woman all over.]

eli
elizabeth: daisy fitzroy, i've read about her. books say she's out to tear
      
elizabeth: look at this! my tower. it's only fair they give me a cut of the
     
elizabeth: they shut down gondola access to the hall of heroes. must be because
 
elizabeth: this is going to be fantastic!

booker: you think that keen eye of you
elizabeth: it'll take some scrounging, but i'll do my best. the line's clear!

[t
elizabeth: looks like we found where your old friend slate is.

booker: let's jus
elizabeth: "our prophet, father comstock, commander of the 7th cavalry."

booker:
elizabeth: i'll try to keep you stocked with both bandages and ammo, but...the
  
elizabeth: what does he mean?

booker: you don't wanna know.

elizabeth: you...yo
elizabeth: you...you were there...at wounded knee...i can see it in your face.

s
elizabeth: who are the boxers?

booker: the chinese. he means to lead us to the o
elizabeth: what is this?

booker: it's the boxer rebellion.

elizabeth: what happ
elizabeth: what happened there?

slate: in peking? it was my hand that put the ci
elizabeth: oh, i read about this...comstock led the columbian troops to
         
elizabeth: what did slate mean? what did you try to erase?

booker: now that you'
elizabeth: a choice is better than none, mr. dewitt. no matter what the
         
elizabeth: say what you want about lady comstock...the woman had an eye for
     
elizabeth: "the seed of the prophet lay in the womb of our lady but for a
       
elizabeth: "but the child took ill and our lady prayed for the prophet's heir
   
elizabeth: that's my tower.

comstock statue: lo! while daisy fitzroy has murdere
elizabeth: am i...? am i...?

booker: you're comstock's daughter.

elizabeth: no,
elizabeth: no, i can't be, i...i can't!

booker: he wants you to follow in his fo
elizabeth: well, i want a puppy, but that doesn't mean i'm gonna get one!

elizab
elizabeth: i can get through these bars, but you're too broad. let me scout
     
elizabeth: it's a tear. something i can bring into this world.

booker: it's a fr
elizabeth: as i said, it's a form of wish fulfillment. alright, let me know if
  
elizabeth: i feel there's more where that came from. whenever i get anxious,
    
elizabeth: aim for his gears!

slate: you see, booker? maybe you're the man i rem
elizabeth: slate must have taken them. look! is that...?

[they see purple footpr
elizabeth: what is that?!

booker: comstock's ships. he's coming for slate.

slat
elizabeth: i suppose it was mercy. comstock's men would have taken him.

       b
elizabeth: you spared him.

       booker: it wasn't no mercy. comstock's men wil
elizabeth: do you ever get used to it? the killing.

booker: faster than you can 
elizabeth: you know, those vigors seem very powerful. i'll do what i can to
     
elizabeth: booker...i can tell what slate said bothered you. you showed me --
   
elizabeth: booker--

booker: look, you seem like a decent enough sort. that said,
elizabeth: mr. dewitt, i--

booker: the name's booker.

elizabeth: i'll be certai
elizabeth: i'll be certain to attend to that distinction...booker...when
        
elizabeth: i always thought of them as doors. when i was younger, i didn't just
 
elizabeth: i could go wherever i wanted, but i always wanted to come back...

boo
elizabeth: i don't know. my family?

booker: huh. how do you do that...whatever i
elizabeth: you know how i said i had plenty of time to read? well, i tried to
   
elizabeth: that there's a world of difference between what we see and what is.

[
elizabeth: booker, up there...another one of those shock jockey doors. maybe
    
elizabeth: the gondola's coming!

[comstock's voice rings out.]

comstock: he wil
elizabeth. once he has what he needs,
          he will leave you alone. what els
elizabeth: father...prophet...whomever you are, i'm leaving and there's naught
  
elizabeth: rockets! rockets, watch out!

[they hold off the attackers and snag a 
elizabeth: when you were unconscious on the beach, you kept repeating a woman's
 
elizabeth: i-i'm sorry, i shouldn't have pried. where are you from, mr. dewitt?


elizabeth: what did you do there?

booker: business much like this. not something
elizabeth: it was a fine thing you came along when you did.

booker: heh. how do 
elizabeth: who sent you?

booker: somebody who was willing to take my marker in e
elizabeth: so, looks like they call you the false shepherd.

booker: and you the 
elizabeth: let's not call each other that.

booker: suits me.

elizabeth: how'd y
elizabeth: how'd you figure they know you'd be coming?

booker: either they've go
elizabeth: har har.

booker: ...or them that hired me also wrote the signs.

eliz
elizabeth: why?

booker: got me.

[they enter the first lady and start the zeppel
elizabeth: i want to see paris. i want to see...everything.

booker: well, that's
elizabeth notices the coordinates he put into the ship's controls.]

elizabeth: w
elizabeth: wait! what is that? 40 north by 74 west. that's not paris, that's
    
elizabeth: one thing i had in that tower was time, mr. dewitt. time to study
    
elizabeth starts crying.]

booker: come on, it-- c'mon, everything's going to be 
elizabeth: whah!

[she clubs him with a monkey wrench.]

________________________
elizabeth fiddle with the controls, then
 bail when a gunship approaches. later, 
elizabeth before she lights outta here.

[further in, booker spies liz being push
elizabeth: get away from me! stay away!

booker: i just wanna talk to you!

eliza
elizabeth: i said stay away!

[she tears a distraction before running away again.
elizabeth! just hold up for a minute! i'm not angry with you.

elizabeth: get awa
elizabeth: get away from me! stay away!

[she opens another tear, this time causi
elizabeth: stay back!

[her next tear almost hits him with a speeding train.]

bo
elizabeth: i am not going with you!

booker: don't go in there!

elizabeth: i hav
elizabeth: i have no need for one such as you!

[her next tear puts her right nea
elizabeth: no! let me go!

founder: we got her!

booker: there's gotta be another
elizabeth: let go of me! get your hands off of me! let me go!

founder 2: comstoc
elizabeth: i am not going with you!

booker: elizabeth, wait!

[he finally catche
elizabeth, wait!

[he finally catches up, except he's attacked by a handyman.]

h
elizabeth: do not attempt to follow me, mr. dewitt!

booker: elizabeth, i've made
elizabeth, i've made an arrangement to get our airship back.

elizabeth: you can 
elizabeth: you can get us out of here?

booker: yes. i just need to supply enough
elizabeth: and where will we get these weapons? from one of our many friends
    
elizabeth: you're a liar, mr. dewitt, and a thug. but you're also my only means
 
elizabeth: don't get too comfortable with my company, mr. dewitt. you are a
     
elizabeth: that would be your gunsmith. who sent you to find this person?

booker
elizabeth: she's either a great hero or the worst of scoundrels, depending on
   
elizabeth: how are we going to get into finkton?

booker: illegally. let's look f
elizabeth: over there, a service elevator. should take us down to finkton.

booke
elizabeth: "gunsmith chen lin wanted for known connections to the outlaw daisy
  
elizabeth: that's not good, is it?

booker: no.

[they wait for the elevator to l
elizabeth: booker, it's slate's locker. he must have worked here. wha...i...
    
elizabeth...

elizabeth: i just want to get out of this city. please...

[they st
elizabeth: i just want to get out of this city. please...

[they start the descen
elizabeth: what's going on?

fink: dewitt? fink here. listen, my boy...we had our
elizabeth: what the hell was that?

booker: i have no idea.

elizabeth: he seems 
elizabeth: he seems oddly pleased to make your acquaintance.

[they see a giganti
elizabeth: well, the man's got an ego.

[fink's pa propaganda starts up again.]


elizabeth: what does mr. fink want with us?

flambeau: excuse me, miss, but mr. f
elizabeth: but why--

flambeau: so sorry, young miss. but any questions regarding
elizabeth: does this strike you as good news? it doesn't strike me as good
      
elizabeth: here that? music. it's coming through that tear.

booker: i never hear
elizabeth: i don't suspect anyone's heard that song.

[they find the factory entr
elizabeth: i've never even seen a lock like this. anti-pressure device, a
       
elizabeth: yes...hmm...looks like everything's been impounded at the good time
  
elizabeth: here it is, booker. "chen lin, gunsmith".

[they enter the gunsmith's 
elizabeth: i've read about this...that's gautama buddha.

booker: who?

elizabeth
elizabeth: the founder of buddhism. he spent 49 days under a bodhi tree until
   
elizabeth: what happened here?

booker: someone worked this place over. local con
elizabeth: you hear that? there's someone downstairs.

[they find a woman crying 
elizabeth: booker...

may lin: mr. lin not here. he...gone.

elizabeth: gone?

ma
elizabeth: gone?

may lin: they take flying squad. i pray gautama buddha. pray gi
elizabeth: where did they take him?

may lin: club. everyone take to good time cl
elizabeth: booker, we'll find it. just leave her be.

may lin: why not vox populi
elizabeth: who are the flying squad?

booker: cops. the kind that probably got th
elizabeth: isn't she the one we're working for?

booker: as a matter of fact, it 
elizabeth: watch out! handyman!

[booker takes on the gargantuan and slays it.]


elizabeth: i don't much care for you, mr. dewitt...but i must admit, you know
   
elizabeth: you protected me.

booker: job's a job.

elizabeth: there it is, mr. d
elizabeth: there it is, mr. dewitt.

booker: now we just need to head inside and 
elizabeth: fireman!

fink: heh heh, yes! yes! quite the eager beaver, isn't he. w
elizabeth: crow! see him?

fink: haha! son! i do say i like the cut of your chin!
elizabeth: booker, theres a door over here. i think that's the way down.

[they g
elizabeth: look! "chen lin, cell number 9."

booker: hmm... i used to work for fo
elizabeth: really?

booker: i was with the pinkertons. they'd call us in when the
elizabeth: to do what?

booker: demonstrate the folly of men striking, throwin' d
elizabeth: you hurt people...

booker: i'll tell you this: sometimes there's prec
elizabeth: why?

booker: because of folks like me.

elizabeth: over here! that's 
elizabeth: over here! that's it. that's the book for the clock shop!

[elizabeth 
elizabeth finds a projector and plays it. it's of lin's interrogation.]

guard: t
elizabeth: huh.

guard: eh...throw a cold bucket of ice water on him, we got thre
elizabeth: ugh...what's that smell?

booker: ain't no privies down here.

elizabe
elizabeth: they treat them like animals. what could people have done to deserve
 
elizabeth: no...no he doesn't.

[they find lin's cell.]

elizabeth: this is it, i
elizabeth: this is it, isn't it?

booker: yep, number nine.

fink: dewitt, you're
elizabeth: booker...

booker: we're too late, goddamnit...

elizabeth: fink...thi
elizabeth: fink...this is what he meant...

booker: now we need to find someone e
elizabeth: no.

booker: dead is dead, elizabeth.

[he looks up to see the strange
elizabeth.

[he looks up to see the strange man and woman from several times befo
elizabeth: booker...chen lin...

[booker moves aside and sees a tear enveloping t
elizabeth: a different columbia.

gentleman: the same coin.

lady: a different pe
elizabeth: we have to go through...to this other columbia, but...how?

gentleman:
elizabeth: if we go into this tear...i don't think i'll be able to bring us
     
elizabeth: look! there's no blood.

booker: and no body.

elizabeth: it's another
elizabeth: it's another world, booker. another columbia.

[they can hear riotous 
elizabeth: we're in a world where he was never murdered. somewhere we'll find
   
elizabeth: these men...

booker: i killed them. they were dead.

elizabeth: not i
elizabeth: not in this world... booker, their noses... they're...they're all
    
elizabeth: they remembered...

booker: remembered what?

elizabeth: being dead.


elizabeth: being dead.

[they enter the club floor, now filled with enemies and f
elizabeth: that man we just fought. in the other world, he was the one who was
  
elizabeth: booker, look. looks like fink isn't giving you the job.

[they return 
elizabeth: all right, give me a second. "the broken clock tolls at midnight."

bo
elizabeth: set it to midnight.

[doing so reveals a hidden cache.]

booker: well,
elizabeth: do you hear anything?

booker: huh?

elizabeth: no machines. no tools.
elizabeth: no machines. no tools.

booker: let's go find that gunsmith. maybe he'
elizabeth: booker, look. the shrine...it's a figure of comstock now.

[they find 
elizabeth: remember him dead in that cell? maybe in some way he remembers that,
 
elizabeth: booker. this is mrs. lin.

sarah lin: they took chen's tools. what's h
elizabeth: mrs. lin, can you tell me who took your husband's tools?

sarah lin: g
elizabeth: is she right? would having his tools back fix his mind?

booker: who c
elizabeth: did you notice? lin had a bloody nose.

booker: seems to be in style.

elizabeth: this tear...i'm not so sure it was a good idea.

[at the shantytown en
elizabeth: if you want to ask me, ask me.

booker: about what?

elizabeth: my fin
elizabeth: my finger.

booker: i...i didn't...

elizabeth: it's alright. it's as 
elizabeth: it's alright. it's as much a mystery to me as anyone else. maybe
     
elizabeth: what for? i get to wear this stylish thimble to cover up my hideous
  
elizabeth: you must think me some sort of...freak. a girl who can bring dead
    
elizabeth: i am not going back to that tower, no matter what happens.

booker: th
elizabeth: why? what did i do to them?

booker: you frighten them.

elizabeth: go
elizabeth: good.

[at the bottom, they find a street preacher talking to the dise
elizabeth: these people are like this because of fink? maybe daisy's right.
     
elizabeth: booker, there's the impound.

founder: we're gonna have to get through
elizabeth: there they are. the tools!

booker: now we just have to get them back 
elizabeth: who are we really helping by getting guns for the vox populi?

booker:
elizabeth: daisy can make a change, can't she? make things better for the
       
elizabeth: it looks like a tear...to a-another version of this room that
        
elizabeth: then they must be--

booker & elizabeth: --back at the shop!

elizabet
elizabeth: --back at the shop!

elizabeth: booker, if we go into this tear...i do
elizabeth: booker, if we go into this tear...i don't think there's any turning
  
elizabeth: well, that did something.

booker: come on, let's head back to the gun
elizabeth: booker, if the vox get their weapons, there's going to be a
          
elizabeth: can you feel it? daisy's moved these people! things can change,
      
elizabeth: look at that poster! in this world, you're a hero...

booker: i rememb
elizabeth: booker, your nose...you're bleeding.

booker: hard to think. there's t
elizabeth: booker, come back to me... we're going to find daisy fitzroy...

booke
elizabeth: in this world, you were a martyr...

booker: these folk need a better 
elizabeth: well...i guess we did it. i don't know if i brought us to a world
    
elizabeth: no...no, this is not what i meant to happen...

booker: elizabeth...


elizabeth...

elizabeth: they're dead, booker!

booker: come on, let's leave this
elizabeth: they're dead, booker!

booker: come on, let's leave this place. let's 
elizabeth: are you sure, booker? did i just bring us to a world where chen lin
  
elizabeth: are we volunteering?!

[booker uses a sky-line to mount the ship.]

bo
elizabeth: booker, that was amazing.

booker: come on, elizabeth. let's go find d
elizabeth. let's go find daisy in the factory.

vox populi: the gates are open! n
elizabeth: daisy said she was coming here for fink.

booker: we need to take that
elizabeth: they're just right for each other, aren't they?

booker: who?

elizabe
elizabeth: fitzroy and comstock. may lin...mr. lin...my god, i...i was so set
   
elizabeth: i had a role in this catastrophe, if, if you want to pretend we're
   
elizabeth: booker!

fink: no! stop it! no! no, no, no!

[she shoots fink in the p
elizabeth: no! no, no, no! she's going to kill that child... booker, we have
    
elizabeth...

elizabeth: i guess it runs in the family.

booker: elizabeth...

[s
elizabeth: i guess it runs in the family.

booker: elizabeth...

[she backs away 
elizabeth...

[she backs away as he tries to comfort her.]

booker: whoa, whoa...
elizabeth.

elizabeth: this is all they had.

booker: listen--

elizabeth: how do
elizabeth: this is all they had.

booker: listen--

elizabeth: how do you do it?

elizabeth: how do you do it?

booker: how do i do what?

elizabeth: forget. how d
elizabeth: forget. how do you wash away the things that you've done?

booker: you
elizabeth: so the moment of truth between us. new york or paris?

[before they ca
elizabeth: no...no...no no no no no!

booker: oh shit! come on, we gotta make thi
elizabeth: there's gotta be some sort of...some sort of throttle or accelerator
 
elizabeth: i don't know!

booker: help me find it!

[songbird flies into the brid
elizabeth! hang on to something!

_______________________________________________
elizabeth: booker! ah...

booker: hold on.

elizabeth: booker...we've got to stop
elizabeth: booker...we've got to stop them.

gentleman: no, that's the e.

lady: 
elizabeth: booker, hurry! if they play the whole song, he'll come back!

booker: 
elizabeth: stop it! stop it, you don't know what you're doing!

lady: ha! there i
elizabeth: no! you've done it now, he's...he's coming back...he's coming back!

g
elizabeth: who are you?

lady: we are where we are needed.

gentleman: and needed
elizabeth: booker...that's comstock house. if we're gonna find him, we should
   
elizabeth: where are these people going?

booker: wherever the vox populi ain't.

elizabeth: look at this one. do you think he wanted any part of this?

booker: di
elizabeth: it always has. when i was younger, i used to be excited when i heard
 
elizabeth: he was all i had. he fed me, brought me books. he was...my friend.

bo
elizabeth: until i grew up. and then i hated him. because he was my warden. but
 
elizabeth: look at this. fitzroy's no better than comstock...was she?

booker: on
elizabeth: this is on our hands, isn't it?

[they continue on.]

elizabeth: this 
elizabeth: this prophecy business... you don't think anyone can really see the
  
elizabeth: hmmm. hope none of the prophet's "magic" is rubbing off on you.

[they
elizabeth: i just realized who those two are. they...at least, she...invented
   
elizabeth: quantum particles. suspended in space-time at fixed height.

booker: s
elizabeth: but the thing is, my books say they disappeared several years ago.

[t
elizabeth: something tells me they're not exactly what they appear.

[this become
elizabeth: they seem to want help.

booker: they seem to be out of their minds.


elizabeth: how do you suppose they manage that?

booker: i'll get back to you aft
elizabeth: "the seed of the prophet shall sit the throne." he was grooming me,
  
elizabeth: then why lock me up?

booker: well, i'm guessin' you didn't want to be
elizabeth: like what?

booker: i think it's best we don't find out.

radio: excus
elizabeth: those turnstiles are one-way. should we check out the bookstore
      
elizabeth: it's a simple dual-dial lock. my book says most fools keep the
       
elizabeth: if you put a person in a cage, they develop an interest in such
      
elizabeth: and i won't be locked up again, book--

[she gesticulates the need for
elizabeth. elizabeth, you--

elizabeth: promise me.

booker: i will stop him.

el
elizabeth, you--

elizabeth: promise me.

booker: i will stop him.

elizabeth: no
elizabeth: promise me.

booker: i will stop him.

elizabeth: no...that is an oath
elizabeth: no...that is an oath you cannot keep. but promise me -- if it comes
  
elizabeth: look! the vox are tearing this place apart.

[they attackers break the
elizabeth: let's not discuss it.

booker: no, what did that thing do to you?

eli
elizabeth: if you were to take me back...that's death, mr. dewitt. or something
 
elizabeth: look at those pennants. seems like the vox have chosen their
         
elizabeth: what a waste. how's the city going to come back from this?

booker: ma
elizabeth: you know, i...i keep thinking about that dream you had. new york on
  
elizabeth: beyond that gate lies comstock house.

automaton: lady comstock, how l
elizabeth: the dress...the thing has mistaken me for my mother.

[she tries the g
elizabeth: i think it can.

booker: your mother's dead, elizabeth.

elizabeth: ye
elizabeth.

elizabeth: yes, i think it's time i paid my respects. let's head to w
elizabeth: yes, i think it's time i paid my respects. let's head to where she's
 
elizabeth: there's the graveyard, where my mother's buried.

booker: where are yo
elizabeth: come on.

booker: what are we looking for?

elizabeth: there it is.

[
elizabeth: there it is.

[the gate has no lock, but liz tears one into existence 
elizabeth: they have her preserved in an airtight chamber. her fingerprints
     
elizabeth: a mother who abandons their child doesn't draw a lot of sympathy in
  
elizabeth: there. will you open the door or do i have to go in without you?

[the
elizabeth...

elizabeth: it's her. how are you, mother? all locked up in there, h
elizabeth: it's her. how are you, mother? all locked up in there, huh? looks
    
elizabeth: no.

booker: let me do it.

elizabeth: look on the other side.

[as th
elizabeth: look on the other side.

[as they're about to bust into the coffin, th
elizabeth.]

comstock: what i do, i do for love! what lion does not cringe to see
elizabeth: make it stop, booker! make it stop! ahhhhh! ahhhh! ahhhhhh!!

comstock
elizabeth: i'm...i don't...no...wh-where did she go?

booker: elizabeth? are you 
elizabeth? are you all right--

elizabeth: where did she go?

booker: just hold o
elizabeth: where did she go?

booker: just hold on, you need to rest for a minute
elizabeth: no, i'm getting that hand!

booker: elizabeth? why is your mother a gh
elizabeth? why is your mother a ghost?

elizabeth: she's not, he...he used me, t-
elizabeth: she's not, he...he used me, t-to power that device, he opened up
     
elizabeth: what's happening?!

booker: it would seem your mother...is raising...t
elizabeth: i don't know...what am i? my god, is she the source of my power?

book
elizabeth: look! footsteps...

rosalind: she goes to unfinished business...

book
elizabeth: there's something...off about lady comstock.

booker: yeah, i noticed.
elizabeth: n-no, you don't understand, she...she doesn't belong here. i brought
 
elizabeth: there's something in there. should i open it?

[they do, and see a sce
elizabeth: that's my mother!

rosalind: i assure you, madam, my sexual interest i
elizabeth: and madam lutece...

rosalind: furthermore, the man is quite sterile.

elizabeth: they weren't my parents...

booker: what? then what were you to them?

elizabeth: a child that they decided to imprison. she deserved whatever
         
elizabeth: she's almost...feral. it's like a reflection of...umm, i don't know.


elizabeth: what could this place have to do with my mother?

[they descend to the
elizabeth snoops around an office.]

elizabeth: fifty percent!

booker: what's th
elizabeth: fifty percent!

booker: what's that?

elizabeth: fifty percent of ever
elizabeth: fifty percent of everything people earn here goes right to comstock
  
elizabeth: booker, look! there's a cipher written on the stationery.

booker: hud
elizabeth: maybe that's where the codebook is...

[if they go to hudson's...]

el
elizabeth: is that the codebook?

booker: looks like it. we should head back to t
elizabeth: alright, let's see..."type...three letters...to spell...the voice."

b
elizabeth: v-o-x. try the typewriter.

[it reveals a secret room. they enter the 
elizabeth: i don't think that's the real lady comstock. i think she's...i think
 
elizabeth: i'm just so angry, at her and at my father. i think she's her but
    
elizabeth: he killed lady comstock...the luteces...

booker: and anybody who knew
elizabeth: i'm not even his daughter...i'm just some...specimen to be poked
     
elizabeth, listen to me...what you've been through...
        ain't nobody in the
elizabeth: booker--

booker: we are gettin' outta here, you got it? and you're ne
elizabeth: rosalind lutece is not my mother...and neither are you. but he
       
elizabeth: i owe you an apology...comstock used me to bring you back, but...i
   
elizabeth: because you wouldn't keep his secret...about me.

siren: if that is so
elizabeth: you're not...not in this world. but maybe this is you in another...
  
elizabeth: i don't know. is that possible?

siren: find out, child...find out.

[
elizabeth: booker...thank you...

_______________________________________________
elizabeth: booker!

booker: run, elizabeth!

[songbird tosses booker through a ne
elizabeth!

[songbird tosses booker through a nearby window, knocking him out. he
elizabeth: bring us the girl...and wipe away the debt.

[he awakens as songbird p
elizabeth: stop! stop it! stop it, don't hurt him! i'm sorry! i'm sorry...i
     
elizabeth! i gotta catch up to her. come after me if you want. i'm not
        le
elizabeth! can you hear me?

[from a tear, he can hear her yelling.]

elizabeth: 
elizabeth: get your hands off of me! just take me back to my tower. please...
   
elizabeth pa: some men dream of money, some men dream of love. my father dreamt
 
elizabeth: what is this place? what are you planning to do to me? please! i
     
elizabeth talking with someone.]

elizabeth: please...please, what is this place?
elizabeth: please...please, what is this place? just...just send me back to my
  
elizabeth: he's not my father!

[booker ascends.]

elizabeth pa: like my father, 
elizabeth pa: like my father, i can see all that would be, might be and must
    
elizabeth: they're hurting me. please, just let me go!

comstock: we're going to 
elizabeth: i'm not sick!

comstock: your spirit is. all i ever wanted is to see y
elizabeth, and i'll be taking care of you.

elizabeth: get away from me.

dr. pet
elizabeth: get away from me.

dr. pettifog: defiant, even after all this time. de
elizabeth: he will come.

[near the atrium is another tear.]

dr. pettifog: the s
elizabeth pa: and what did the lord receive in return for his gifts? eve and
    
elizabeth: i'm not hungry.

dr. pettifog: you'll need to eat sooner or later. if 
elizabeth pa: a man once promised me he would free me of my chains. but in the
  
elizabeth now.

elizabeth pa: i am here to finish my father's work. as he baptize
elizabeth pa: i am here to finish my father's work. as he baptized me with
      
elizabeth, hold tight! what, it's a tear... what is it--

[he finds her screams a
elizabeth: as you can see, booker, the lunatics are running the asylum. they
    
elizabeth, i don't understand! i heard you screaming, i was...i was
        comin
elizabeth: here...take my hand...

[he goes closer and takes her hand, finding he
elizabeth: "the seed of the prophet shall sit the throne, and drown in flame
    
elizabeth: songbird. he always stops you.

booker: yes, but i would find a way.


elizabeth: no. it's too late for me. i brought you here for your sake. yours
    
elizabeth: it's for her...she'll know how to read it.

booker: what does it say?

elizabeth: it's advice.

booker: advice on what?

elizabeth: how not to become me
elizabeth: how not to become me.

[old elizabeth and the destruction disappear, p
elizabeth and the destruction disappear, putting booker back to his time.
 he see
elizabeth!

[he finds comstock and doctors around liz's isolation chamber.]

dr. 
elizabeth: no, no! no! turn it off! turn it off! please? please, it hurts!

dr. p
elizabeth, i'll be right there!

[he goes down to her chair.]

booker: i've got y
elizabeth: just do it.

[he disconnects the weird pump attached to her spine.]

e
elizabeth: help me with this.

[he gives her the note from old elizabeth.]

booke
elizabeth.]

booker: i think someone meant for you to have this.

elizabeth: what
elizabeth: what is it?

booker: just...read it.

[he starts fixing her corset.]


elizabeth: your dream of new york...happens. and it's me...i'm the one who...

bo
elizabeth: booker.

booker: paris, elizabeth...remember, you wanted to go to--

e
elizabeth...remember, you wanted to go to--

elizabeth: we're not leaving. we are
elizabeth: we're not leaving. we are going to find comstock.

booker: why?

eliza
elizabeth: you saw what he turns me into, i will not allow that.

booker: and so,
elizabeth: is this where you start moralizing, booker? you forget, i know you.

b
elizabeth: really, booker? what are you going to do to stop me?

booker: not a da
elizabeth: comstock's zeppelin is outside. the hand of the prophet, he calls
    
elizabeth: i've been here for awhile.

booker: how long?

elizabeth: long enough.
elizabeth: long enough. i hope comstock got what he wanted from me...'cause
     
elizabeth: this doesn't make any sense. everything here is a cipher that i
      
elizabeth: look! it's the hand of the prophet -- comstock's flagship. we've
     
elizabeth: we're doing this together, or i'm doing it alone. either way, i need
 
elizabeth: look! take cover!

[the missiles fired don't explode.]

elizabeth: the
elizabeth: they must be duds.

booker: those aren't duds, they're--

[the "duds" 
elizabeth. i built all of this for you! you are my
          heir and my blood! a
elizabeth: booker, look! it's a shuttle that can take us to the hand of the
     
elizabeth: do you think...it's possible to redeem the kind of things that we've
 
elizabeth: booker...are you afraid of god?

booker: no...but i'm afraid of you.


elizabeth: over there! it's comstock's men, they're coming out to meet us!
      
elizabeth: booker, look! it's the vox! they're coming to attack the flagship.
   
elizabeth: there he is! we need to land below and fight our way up to him.

booke
elizabeth: just drop me off if you want to. this isn't your problem, booker.

boo
elizabeth: you wouldn't...would you? look, there are sky-lines all over the
     
elizabeth: comstock is at the top of the ship. let's head up.

[as soon as they s
elizabeth: booker, those sky-lines lead up to the next deck! if we clear the
    
elizabeth. that job falls to
          you.

elizabeth: the sky-lines are clear, 
elizabeth: the sky-lines are clear, booker!

booker: follow me!

[they ride up a 
elizabeth: there's the launch panel.

booker: let's get those pods off the lines.
elizabeth: why are they dropping so slowly?

booker: i don't know. we're gonna ha
elizabeth: that's one quarter of the pods ejected!

booker: that's all?!

[they k
elizabeth: one half done!

[finally...]

elizabeth: booker, the lines are clear.

elizabeth: booker, the lines are clear.

[they escape to the third deck.]

comsto
elizabeth: no, i'm going with you. we can take that sky-line to the prophet's
   
elizabeth: this is my tower...what's this...the siphon?

booker: i saw this there
elizabeth: and then in my mother's grave, there was a smaller one...they were
   
elizabeth: when i was little, i used to be able not to just open tears, but i
   
elizabeth: booker, no. this is between me and him.

booker: you are walking into 
elizabeth: i need to do this.

[they enter into comstock's cabin. the man himself
elizabeth: tell me.

elizabeth: what am i?

comstock: look at you, child, you're 
elizabeth: what am i?

comstock: look at you, child, you're a mess.

booker: hey.
elizabeth, everything i've done...i've done to keep you safe.

elizabeth: safe fr
elizabeth: safe from what?

comstock: "the seed of the prophet shall sit the thro
elizabeth: why?

comstock: dewitt, i'm a fool. i've sent mighty armies to stop yo
elizabeth: let go of me...

comstock: ask him! ask the false shepherd! tell her! 
elizabeth: my hand! please let go!

comstock: tell her about her finger!

[he sep
elizabeth: booker!

comstock: it...is...finished.

[he stops choking comstock and
elizabeth: booker...booker!

booker: you cut off her finger...and you put it on m
elizabeth: booker, stop it!

[he stops his rage, but comstock has already drowned
elizabeth: you killed him. what did he mean? huh? you tell me, what did he mean
 
elizabeth: your nose...it's bleeding.

booker: what? elizabeth, i swear to you, i
elizabeth, i swear to you, i have no idea what he was talking
        about.

eli
elizabeth: you do. you just can't remember it.

booker: no...i'll prove it to you
elizabeth: destroy the siphon? it's the entire tower, booker. how are we gonna
  
elizabeth: cage...cage...what does that...

booker: now what?

elizabeth: what is
elizabeth: what is she trying to tell us...cage...cage. i'm missing
           so
elizabeth: booker...?

vox pa: they said they knew what was comin' next...

eliza
elizabeth: booker!

vox pa: did you see this comin', old man? did you see this co
elizabeth: the bird!

vox pa: you ain't gonna place your daughter on the throne, 
elizabeth: we have to sing to him!

booker: sing to who? elizabeth, stop it!

eli
elizabeth, stop it!

elizabeth: c-a-g-e! it's not a word, booker...it's a song!


elizabeth: c-a-g-e! it's not a word, booker...it's a song!

[liz's destruction su
elizabeth: shhh...shhh, it's okay, i'm here. will you help me? i need you to
    
elizabeth: go. go! go go go! booker, he'll help us! we can use him against the
  
elizabeth: zeppelin!

booker: go for the zeppelin!

elizabeth: i don't like the l
elizabeth: i don't like the looks of this!

vox pa: you thought the streets were 
elizabeth: mr. dewitt, i think there's some more of them!

vox pa: long live the 
elizabeth: booker, come here...

booker: what? what is it?

[they both go to the 
elizabeth: look. you can use songbird to bring the whole damn thing down.
       
elizabeth: it's the only way we'll find the truth. about my finger...comstock.
  
elizabeth's
 power starts returning to her in full.]

booker: the whistler! eliza
elizabeth! the bird, elizabeth! i lost control! he's
        coming!

elizabeth: 
elizabeth! i lost control! he's
        coming!

elizabeth: no, he isn't.

[she t
elizabeth: no, he isn't.

[she tears into a new area -- rapture, the underwater c
elizabeth: shhh...shhh...it's okay, it's all right. i'm here. just let go.
      
elizabeth...i'm sorry. what is this place? elizabeth?

elizabeth: it's a doorway.
elizabeth?

elizabeth: it's a doorway. one of many. this way.

booker: what do yo
elizabeth: it's a doorway. one of many. this way.

booker: what do you mean, it's
elizabeth: come on. yes, it's this way.

booker: what comstock said about your fi
elizabeth: down here. over here, booker! this is where we have to go.

[she leads
elizabeth, what do you mean, this is a doorway?

elizabeth: i'll have to show you
elizabeth: i'll have to show you.

booker: probably gonna regret this.

[he pulls
elizabeth: look at that. thousands of doors...opening all at once. my god,
      
elizabeth: come on...come on, it's this way...come on!

[they land at the lightho
elizabeth: it's no good. damn it, i thought once we were here, i could fully
    
elizabeth: it's a key.

booker: where did it come from?

elizabeth: it's always b
elizabeth: it's always been there, i just...i just couldn't see it.

[they unlock
elizabeth: see? not stars. doors.

booker: doors to...?

elizabeth: to everywhere
elizabeth: to everywhere. all that's left is the choosing.

booker: what are all 
elizabeth: there are a million million worlds. all different and all similar.
   
elizabeth: there's always a lighthouse. there's always a man, there's always a
  
elizabeth: i can see them through the doors. you...me, columbia, songbird...
    
elizabeth: yes.

[she leads him to another lighthouse. this time, it's dusk and t
elizabeth walking along a lighthouse path.]

elizabeth: look!

booker: it's us.


elizabeth: look!

booker: it's us.

elizabeth: not exactly. we swim in different 
elizabeth: not exactly. we swim in different oceans but land on the same shore.
 
elizabeth: we don't need to. it'll happen all the same.

booker: why?

elizabeth:
elizabeth: because it does. because it has. because it will.

booker: there are s
elizabeth: they all lead us to the same place...where it started.

booker: no one
elizabeth: booker...you've already been.

[the next lighthouse opens into a bapti
elizabeth: why were you here?

preacher witting: are you ready to have your past 
elizabeth: but you already did, didn't you?

[booker takes witting's hand.]

prea
elizabeth: you didn't go through with it.

booker: you think a dunk in the river'
elizabeth: not until we find comstock.

booker: comstock's dead!

elizabeth: no. 
elizabeth: no. he was here. this way.

[the next tear leads booker to his p.i. of
elizabeth: really?

booker: yes. the girl for the debt.

[booker enters a side ro
elizabeth: booker...you don't leave this room until you do.

robert: dewitt! time
elizabeth: go ahead.

booker: no.

elizabeth: you can wait as long as you want. e
elizabeth: you can wait as long as you want. eventually, you'll give him what
   
elizabeth: i can see all the doors, and what's behind all the doors, and behind
 
elizabeth: bring us the girl, and wipe away the debt.

booker: there was no baby.
elizabeth: booker...you're bleeding.

booker: no...i remember what i remember...

elizabeth: come on.

[they climb out.]

booker: what are we doing here? comstock'
elizabeth: dead? you mean like chen lin? like lady comstock? he is alive in a
   
elizabeth: she's gone, booker. anna's gone. you shared this room with your
      
elizabeth: booker, wake up.

[booker's mind snaps back to normal. he's in the lut
elizabeth: booker...wake up...this is where it started.

booker: i sold you...i s
elizabeth: booker, are you sure this is what you want?

booker: i have to...it's 
elizabeth: this isn't the same place, booker.

booker: of course it is, i remembe
elizabeth there as well.]

elizabeth 2: you chose to walk away.

elizabeth: but i
elizabeth 2: you chose to walk away.

elizabeth: but in other oceans, you didn't.
elizabeth: but in other oceans, you didn't. you took the baptism.

elizabeth 3: y
elizabeth 3: you were born again as a different man.

booker: comstock.

elizabet
elizabeth 4: it all has to end.

elizabeth: to never have started.

elizabeth 5: 
elizabeth: to never have started.

elizabeth 5: not just in this world.

elizabet
elizabeth 5: not just in this world.

elizabeth: but in all of ours.

booker: smo
elizabeth: but in all of ours.

booker: smother him in the crib.

elizabeth ensem
elizabeth ensemble: smother...smother...smother...before the choice is made...

e
elizabeth: before you are reborn...

witting: and what name shall you take my son
elizabeth 6: he's zachary comstock.

elizabeth 7: he's booker dewitt.

booker: no
elizabeth 7: he's booker dewitt.

booker: no...i'm both.

[his daughters him in t
elizabeths simply disappear
 one by one...]

[credits roll.]

[after the credits,
elizabeth: elizabeth. you can call me elizabeth.

booker: what can i do for you?

elizabeth. you can call me elizabeth.

booker: what can i do for you?

elizabeth:
elizabeth.

booker: what can i do for you?

elizabeth: there's a girl who needs t
elizabeth: there's a girl who needs to be found. maybe you've seen her.

[she sho
elizabeth: you know her?

booker: you'll see dozens of her type down by the docks
elizabeth: but her you know.

booker: as i said, girl's dead.

elizabeth: lost.


elizabeth: lost.

booker: look...i don't know where you get--

elizabeth: lost is
elizabeth: lost isn't dead. name your rate, i will pay you for this work. but
   
elizabeth: something tells me you will.

[she leaves. booker follows, revealing h
elizabeth: seems my instincts were correct.

booker: where's sally?

elizabeth: i
elizabeth: i don't know...but i know someone who does. follow me.

booker: what's
elizabeth: what i need from her is my business. but i know where to start
       
elizabeth: what happened to these children? what are they?

booker: where've you 
elizabeth: it's grotesque.

teacher: red means stop, green means go. this is the 
elizabeth: what?

booker: you not knowing about the little sisters. how long have
elizabeth: let's just say i don't get out much.

booker: you've got eyes and ears
elizabeth: if i wanted to share my life's story, mr. dewitt, i would write my
   
elizabeth: the man we need to see is in the garden of the muses.

booker: how do 
elizabeth: my sources are my own, mr. dewitt. if you have better information
    
elizabeth: when's the last time you saw sally?

booker: what?

elizabeth: she was
elizabeth: she was taken from you wasn't she?

booker: how do you know this?

eli
elizabeth: she was taken. down at sir prize. you were playing the tables and--

b
elizabeth: and...

booker: cop friend of mine, sullivan. says they found her floa
elizabeth: you see the body?

booker: look--

elizabeth: did you see...the body? 
elizabeth: did you see...the body? this world values children, not childhood.
   
elizabeth: mr. dewitt, you alright?

booker: i'm fine...just get these spells som
elizabeth: mr. dewitt. we'll find my source inside of my club.

booker: cohen? wh
elizabeth: "private party. no entry without invitation."

booker: we'll see about
elizabeth: i'm with the artist's struggle. we're expected.

doorman: no mask, no 
elizabeth: these invitation masks he spoke of -- they must have gone out to
     
elizabeth: "the business of rapture is business..." says it's sponsored by the
  
elizabeth: a man.

booker: really. you don't strike me as the romantic type.

eli
elizabeth: wasn't that kind of man.

booker: then what?

elizabeth: there's a deb
elizabeth: there's a debt that needs repaying.

booker: i've known my share of sh
elizabeth: wasn't that kind of debt.

[they arrive at rapture records.]

elizabet
elizabeth: invitations to cohen's shows are highly coveted. nobody's going to
   
elizabeth: you just find the mask. leave the distractions to me.

[the duo enters
elizabeth: what is this piece?

shopkeep: it's by trenet, but of course, covered 
elizabeth: oh, it's lovely. isn't it lovely?

shopkeep: oh, yes.

elizabeth: oh, 
elizabeth: oh, music does something to me...especially something in this
        
elizabeth: it's almost primal, isn't it? a part of us that exists before
        
elizabeth: --that we never knew existed...

shopkeep: yes...

elizabeth: can you 
elizabeth: can you turn it up? oh, it's so intoxicating...but also -- but also
  
elizabeth: i must go...i must go. even one more note shall prove my undoing.

[th
elizabeth: any luck?

booker: nothin'. let's find another shop.

elizabeth: where
elizabeth: where to next, mr. dewitt? the golden rule is just across the way,
   
elizabeth: i'm interested in this piece.

shopkeep: ah, excellent. you've an eye,
elizabeth: that's a lot of fine talk about a stolen ring.

shopkeep: i beg your p
elizabeth: right out of her coffin at twilight fields. did you think we
         
elizabeth: the assurances of a graverobber of are no interest to me! if you
     
elizabeth: get your hands off of me!

[he grabs her, but she knows where to kick.
elizabeth: might be best of we were gone when he wakes up. did you look for
     
elizabeth: there's no other way to get us into cohen's. it's got to be back
     
elizabeth: nothing?

booker: no. got one place left, though.

elizabeth: and if t
elizabeth: and if that proves to be fruitless?

booker: we'll cross that bridge w
elizabeth: i'm sorry, but i know precious little about art.

shopkeep: how does i
elizabeth: i don't want to open my mouth, for fear of what foolishness might
    
elizabeth: oh, would you? oh, i would like so much to understand.

shopkeep: in t
elizabeth: you see all that in that little picture? oh, what's this one? oh,
    
elizabeth: oh, yes, please! tell me everything. you're so knowledgeable...why,
  
elizabeth: do you have anything of your own that you could show me?

shopkeep: we
elizabeth: you've given me so much to think about...i feel a trifle swoony...
   
elizabeth: good, you've located the mask.

booker: third time's the charm.

eliza
elizabeth: alright. it's best we head back to cohen's.

booker: fine piece of wor
elizabeth: for that you can thank my father.

booker: oh, yeah?

elizabeth: he wa
elizabeth: he was a man comfortable in a variety of roles.

booker: so, what kind
elizabeth: field?

booker: yeah, you know, occupation? can't imagine what kind of
elizabeth: i suppose you could say i work in debt collection. this better work,
 
elizabeth: so who is this fellow cohen? some sort of underworld figure?

booker: 
elizabeth: an artist who kidnaps children...

booker: cohen's muse is a bit more 
elizabeth: you've seen this girl, haven't you?

cohen: we artists see more than m
elizabeth: mr. dewitt...

booker: what?

elizabeth: dance with me.

cohen: come, 
elizabeth: dance with me.

cohen: come, come, dance! come on, dance! feel the mus
elizabeth: i shudder to think what greater price he might care to extract.

cohen
elizabeth: what do you think cohen's customers do with the children? do they--

b
elizabeth: that's a blessing.

booker: you saw those little sisters. you so sure?
elizabeth: how?

booker: 'cause i tied him to a chair and asked him.

elizabeth: 
elizabeth: so?

booker: for fifteen hours.

elizabeth: i don't know what to make 
elizabeth: i don't know what to make of you, mr. dewitt.

cohen: no, no, no, no!

elizabeth's voice.]

elizabeth: mr. dewitt. mr. dewitt! mr. dewitt! are you alrig
elizabeth: mr. dewitt. mr. dewitt! mr. dewitt! are you alright?

booker: i'm fine
elizabeth: you were dreaming...you kept saying your daughter's name, sally.

book
elizabeth: i thought--

cohen pa: pain and beauty. to an artist, they are parent 
elizabeth: look...

booker: fontaine's. ryan sunk the whole thing to the bottom.

elizabeth: but it's a prison now. why would cohen have sent sally there?

booker:
elizabeth: how many people do you suppose ryan's got locked up in that place?

bo
elizabeth: takes a cold son of a bitch to do that to a living person.

booker: wh
elizabeth: burial at sea.

booker: you read your residency contract with ryan ind
elizabeth: oof.

booker: don't get too comfortable. keep your eyes open.

elizabe
elizabeth: seem to be some supplies this way, mr. dewitt.

booker: it's "booker."
elizabeth: what?

booker: just call me "booker."

elizabeth: if it's all the same
elizabeth: if it's all the same to you, let's leave it at "mr. dewitt."

[booker 
elizabeth: look up there. let's have another look around. perhaps we'll be
      
elizabeth: a sky-hook.

booker: "sky-hook"? you mean the "air-grabber"? kids use 
elizabeth: "air-grabbers"? huh. constants and variables.

booker: constants and w
elizabeth: never mind.

[booker uses his new toy to get above the gate.]

booker:
elizabeth: mr. dewitt...someone's coming...

[they see two splicers fighting over
elizabeth: mr. dewitt...look.

[out the window, the housewares tower can be seen.
elizabeth: housewares...that's where cohen said we'd find sally. the store ran
  
elizabeth: optimism, mr. dewitt. it helps in situations like this.

[they board t
elizabeth: when did you come to rapture?

booker: oh, it was...jeez...i guess aro
elizabeth: that's a rather large gap.

booker: time...life i had before...sort of
elizabeth: you look a mess, mr. dewitt.

booker: just keep your eyes open for spl
elizabeth: careful. they don't look friendly.

[they take out the splicers and co
elizabeth: mr. dewitt -- look.

booker: well, there's the tram.

elizabeth: that 
elizabeth: that splicer had no problem freezing a path for himself before.

booke
elizabeth: i have no doubt you'll prove persuasive. mr. dewitt, look.

[a sign ad
elizabeth: an ice rink.

booker: be good a place as any to look for our new frien
elizabeth: says it's on a top floor.

booker: so we go up.

[they encounter a loc
elizabeth: let me see that. ugh, have matters progressed so little...i could
    
elizabeth: oh, it's something i picked up a long time ago.

booker: our frozen fr
elizabeth: splicers! i don't think they see us. if you keep quiet, maybe you
    
elizabeth: what's happened to these people...they don't even seem sane.

booker: 
elizabeth: you sound sympathetic.

booker: they wouldn't be the first sons a bitc
elizabeth: --a jolt of shock jockey.

booker: you familiar with shock jockey?

el
elizabeth: more than you could know.

booker: let's look around. maybe there's a 
elizabeth: it's freezing in here.

booker: something tells me all that cold isn't
elizabeth: i think i can help.

[she opens a tear where a bottle still exists in 
elizabeth: it's a, uh, new plasmid. let's me...let's me bring in things that
    
elizabeth: tear.

booker: where'd you find that?

elizabeth: you don't expect a g
elizabeth: you don't expect a girl to share all her secrets, do you, mr.
        
elizabeth: my purpose here is none of your concern. consider me a means to an
   
elizabeth: i told you, i'm in collections. an account is in arrears. my clients
 
elizabeth: if you don't like the arrangement, the bathysphere's back that way.

[
elizabeth: why did ryan lock up all of fontaine's followers in a department
     
elizabeth: but i thought andrew ryan was all about free markets and open
        
elizabeth: mr. dewitt, use the plasmid.

[they freeze a makeshift bridge across.]
elizabeth: if sally's not your daughter, what's she to you? why risk life and
   
elizabeth: you owe me no explanation.

booker: she's just another orphan. after f
elizabeth: and...

booker: i don't know. you have a reason for every stupid thing
elizabeth: how did you lose her?

booker: it's none of you business.

[they get i
elizabeth: yes?

booker: wouldn't peg you as the rapture type. not even a little.
elizabeth: if you mean i have no interest in joining the andrew ryan book club,
 
elizabeth: what?

booker: you asked me how i lost sally. i gamble. took her somew
elizabeth: but you did.

booker: yeah, and here we are. but the million-dollar qu
elizabeth: i have an interest in reuniting you with her. isn't that reason
      
elizabeth: i can only imagine what they would do with a child in a place like
   
elizabeth: the sooner we find her, the better.

[as they step into housewares, th
elizabeth: i can't see her...

[she kneels near a toolbox.]

booker: what are you
elizabeth: this is a schematic for the venting system. it shows there are more
  
elizabeth: if she's in there, there are only six vents she can come out of.

[she
elizabeth: and now there are five. all these vents are connected to the central
 
elizabeth: no, we just make it hot enough to flush her out.

booker: can't do tha
elizabeth: look, either we find her...or one of those splicers will.

booker: ...
elizabeth: up ahead.

[they enter electronics, spotting splicers guarding an exit
elizabeth: we need to close these vents. two down. where to now?

[later, they en
elizabeth: what is that thing in there?

booker: it's a radar range. never could 
elizabeth: damn door's got a key code lock. no way to get in without knowing
    
elizabeth: halfway there.

[near appliances, more splicers wait for the kill.]

s
elizabeth: okay, next one.

[in a projector room, they find more splicers.]

spli
elizabeth: what exactly were they trying to keep out?

booker: something worse th
elizabeth: and what could that be?

booker: you'll know it when you see it.

[the
elizabeth: i don't know if she was dangerous...or just insane.

booker: next time
elizabeth: there should be one more.

[they make for the showroom. sally's hummin
elizabeth: hear that?

booker: sally...? sally, it's me, booker. now, you come ou
elizabeth: mr. dewitt, she's not coming. now let's get the rest of these vents
  
elizabeth: that's the last one.

booker: where's the exhaust?

elizabeth: in the 
elizabeth: in the toy department.

[they hurry over to toys, but the door's shut.
elizabeth: look. i think i can squeeze through. gimme a boost.

[he boosts liz in
elizabeth: i just, i can't get the--

booker: come on!

elizabeth: i'm just, i'm 
elizabeth: i'm just, i'm try--...just give me a second!

[booker slays the splice
elizabeth: dewitt. well, you don't seem any worse for wear.

booker: speak for yo
elizabeth: alright, let me go check the exhaust vent.

[she peers inside the pipe
elizabeth: no sign of her. looks like we'll need to turn up the thermostat if
   
elizabeth: thermostat's right there. turn the heat up.

booker: i'm not going to 
elizabeth: it's the only way to bring her to us. if you won't do it, i will.
    
elizabeth: what?

booker: turn the goddamn thermostat up.

[almost immediately, t
elizabeth: do you hear that? we need to get back to the exhaust before we lose
  
elizabeth: i told you, she's coming.

[they can hear sally crying in the pipes.]

elizabeth: if we turn it off, it's not going to work.

booker: we have to turn it
elizabeth: look!

booker: sally. sally? sally, it's booker...it's me... sally, c'
elizabeth: booker!

sally: mr. bubbles--!

[booker turns around, just in time to 
elizabeth: mr. dewitt, the girl!

booker: sally!

sally: no no no no!

elizabeth:
elizabeth: mr. dewitt...is she...?

booker: it's okay, sally...

elizabeth: is sh
elizabeth: is she--

[he holds up the head of her doll.]

booker: look....look, i
elizabeth in her younger days are there.]

elizabeth: you're hurting her!

comsto
elizabeth: you're hurting her!

comstock: she's got to come with me!

elizabeth: 
elizabeth: she's not your child.

comstock: she is mine!

[the flashback stops.]

elizabeth: let her go...let her go!

booker: she's mine!

[he continues pulling, 
elizabeth: she wasn't yours...comstock. i wasn't. yet you had to have me,
       
elizabeth: and when the guilt was too much--

robert: --you turned to use to solv
elizabeth...child...i am so sorry...

elizabeth: no you're not...but you're about
elizabeth: no you're not...but you're about to be.

[the big daddy's drill impale
elizabeth: she wasn't yours, comstock.

booker: elizabeth...i am so sorry...

eli
elizabeth...i am so sorry...

elizabeth: no you're not...but you're about to be.

elizabeth: no you're not...but you're about to be.

[the first images are of the 
elizabeth lines are in french; the translation are given instead.]

artist: madam
elizabeth: yes?

[he's drawn a picture of her, ponytail and all.]

artist: what i
elizabeth: elizabeth.

artist: for you, elizabeth.

elizabeth: oh, no...no, i-i c
elizabeth.

artist: for you, elizabeth.

elizabeth: oh, no...no, i-i couldn't! i 
elizabeth.

elizabeth: oh, no...no, i-i couldn't! i can't accept.

artist: please
elizabeth: oh, no...no, i-i couldn't! i can't accept.

artist: please, i insist.

elizabeth: oh, thank you.

[liz gets up from her seat and starts her stroll.]

wo
elizabeth!

elizabeth: bonjour.

kid: how are you?

elizabeth: ca va bien?

[she 
elizabeth: bonjour.

kid: how are you?

elizabeth: ca va bien?

[she walks by an 
elizabeth: ca va bien?

[she walks by an artist.]

elizabeth: bonjour, monsieur s
elizabeth: bonjour, monsieur seurat.

man: hello, miss elizabeth. nothing good to
elizabeth. nothing good to paint today!

[further along...]

girl: come play with
elizabeth!

elizabeth: i'm sorry, cosette. next time, i promise.

girl: aww, too 
elizabeth: i'm sorry, cosette. next time, i promise.

girl: aww, too bad!

[she w
elizabeth: do you have "the age of innocence" by edith wharton?

man: i'm sorry, 
elizabeth finds a girl with a balloon.]

elizabeth: sally? sally!

[her balloon f
elizabeth: sally? sally!

[her balloon floats away.]

sally: come back!

elizabet
elizabeth: sally, wait!

sally: come back!

elizabeth: wait! sally, stop!

sally:
elizabeth: wait! sally, stop!

sally: come back!

elizabeth: sally, where are you
elizabeth: sally, where are you going?

sally: come back!

elizabeth: sally, hold
elizabeth: sally, hold on!

sally: come back!

elizabeth: stop, stop! where did s
elizabeth: stop, stop! where did she go?

[she finds a red balloon in front of de
elizabeth: go away. it wasn't my fault. i didn't do anything!

[she imagines sall
elizabeth: no...no, no...no! it wasn't my fault! leave me alone! can't you just
 
elizabeth: let her go!

lonnie: quiet down now, dear...in a minute, all your prob
elizabeth. tell him you can get him back.

elizabeth: booker? oh, booker...what? 
elizabeth: booker? oh, booker...what? i don't understand what... how--

booker: s
elizabeth: what?

booker: just say it.

elizabeth: i can get you back to rapture!
elizabeth: i can get you back to rapture!

atlas: put the gun down. now...what wa
elizabeth: i can get you back to rapture.

atlas: and how you plan on doin' that,
elizabeth: what?

booker: tell him "suchong."

elizabeth: suchong.

atlas: and ho
elizabeth: suchong.

atlas: and how do you know that slant-eyed wonder?

booker: 
elizabeth: i'm his lab assistant.

atlas: if it escaped your notice, andrew ryan'
elizabeth: that's between me...

booker: ...and the slant.

elizabeth: ...and the
elizabeth: ...and the slant...but if i do this, the girl goes with me.

atlas: li
elizabeth: last time i checked, back in the city they were making little
        
elizabeth. come on. it's time to get movin'.

elizabeth: booker?... what?...

boo
elizabeth: booker?... what?...

booker: over here. on the radio.

elizabeth: you'
elizabeth: you're not booker.

booker: of course i ain't.

elizabeth: what have i
elizabeth: what have i gotten myself into? i didn't orphan that girl. i didn't
  
elizabeth: had to be done.

booker: did it?

elizabeth: i felt everything that ev
elizabeth: i felt everything that every version of me felt. all of that 
        
elizabeth: but then why am i back here? huh? i don't remember opening a tear
    
elizabeth: i was in paris. i...i was happy. and now i'm here, dealing with
      
elizabeth: and now i have to find this...this suchong... and, i don't even
      
elizabeth: to what?

booker: you're asking me? elizabeth...i ain't even here.

[l
elizabeth...i ain't even here.

[liz tries to unhinge some rubble.]

elizabeth: w
elizabeth: what are you? huh? an how did you know exactly what to tell atlas?

bo
elizabeth?

elizabeth: i feel...i feel strange and...and smaller, i...i can't see
elizabeth: i feel...i feel strange and...and smaller, i...i can't see the
       
elizabeth, impaled on rebar.]

elizabeth: oh my god...

[flashback.]

elizabeth: 
elizabeth: oh my god...

[flashback.]

elizabeth: stay away from me...

[flashbac
elizabeth: stay away from me...

[flashback ends.]

elizabeth: booker...

[flashb
elizabeth: booker...

[flashback: a big daddy approaches.]

elizabeth: no, no, no
elizabeth: no, no, no, please -- please, don't...

[flashback ends.]

elizabeth: 
elizabeth: i died here...i was killed by that--

[flashback: the big daddy punche
elizabeth: stay away from me!

[flashback ends.]

elizabeth: but then, how am i..
elizabeth: but then, how am i...here? how can i be dead in this world and yet--


elizabeth: my finger... what am i, huh? i...i don't understand, i-i...

rosalind:
elizabeth finds herself in the rowboat that started the main campaign, with
 the 
elizabeth: i need to go back. to fix what i broke.

rosalind: back to where she h
elizabeth: doesn't belong? wait, what do you mean?

rosalind: do you want to tell
elizabeth: because i died...

rosalind: there are rules.

robert: even for one su
elizabeth disembarks at a lighthouse.]

rosalind: you're trading omniscience and 
elizabeth: i left sally to rot...for what? so i could punish comstock? he was
   
elizabeth: the luteces warned me that if i came back here, i would collapse.

boo
elizabeth: from a-a quantum superposition...to just me.

booker: a quantum what?

elizabeth: i've changed, booker. no tears, no cosmic knowledge...just a normal
  
elizabeth. you knew what that meant. only
        option, as i see it, is to trus
elizabeth: i think i'm gonna have to use this air-grabber... it's gonna be
      
elizabeth: well, that's not what you would've done.

booker: i'm not booker. just
elizabeth: shhh!

booker: he can't hear what's only in your head.

[liz brains hi
elizabeth: well, he's not getting up anytime soon.

booker: and what with his hea
elizabeth: from here on, it's only gonna get worse.

booker: and how much worse i
elizabeth: now, let's get his lockpick.

elizabeth: simple enough -- just a six-p
elizabeth: simple enough -- just a six-pin tumbler. ugh, but there's also an
    
elizabeth: what was that?

booker: you know, don't you?

elizabeth: the-the doors
elizabeth: the-the doors, they're...they're cracking open. my memories of the
   
elizabeth, if not mine, then...then whose?

[liz picks up a crossbow near a door.
elizabeth: it's a crossbow. looks like the bolt delivers some kind of sleep
     
elizabeth: they had all kinds of books in my tower. how do you think i always
   
elizabeth: why don't you ask comstock how ready i was?

booker: your father's blo
elizabeth: look, suchong! that's the name you had me tell atlas. huh...

booker: 
elizabeth: it looks like this suchong character has taken over the silver fin
   
elizabeth: over a year from now... yeah, that-that's right, i... when i could
   
elizabeth, you're...you're bleeding.

elizabeth: now i know what it feels like. a
elizabeth: now i know what it feels like. alright...if we're going to find
      
elizabeth: i was here as well... right after i came through, i needed...i
       
elizabeth: i could use this plasmid and see them through the walls, or, if
      
elizabeth: it wasn't really paris, it was more...it was more the world as i
     
elizabeth: hey...there you are.

[later, liz enters an abandoned elevator.]

eliz
elizabeth: once i could see everything...every possible moment. and now...

booke
elizabeth: why? why, because i died here? if i'm just like everyone else, i
     
elizabeth: i'll hold up my end. but i better find the girl the way i left her.

a
elizabeth: it's him...it's the big daddy...the one that killed me.

booker: you c
elizabeth: comstock put him down, and he got right back up. now, i can't hurt
   
elizabeth: let me in. i'm working with atlas.

atlas follower: i ain't heard noth
elizabeth: the silver fin. this used to be a restaurant when i first came
       
elizabeth: somebody must have shot him when he tried to break into suchong's.
   
elizabeth: hmm. well, seems like central heating came from this room, so...it
   
elizabeth: suchong wasn't exactly a master of subterfuge...

[via the ducts, she 
elizabeth: think we found our man.

booker: no sign of him now.

elizabeth: eithe
elizabeth: either's he dead...or working for ryan.

[a door is locked with a rota
elizabeth: locked. and nothing to pick. but i came here for a reason, right?
    
elizabeth: thanks, i appreciate the reminder.

booker: of what?

elizabeth: my te
elizabeth: my tenuous mental state.

booker: people ain't designed to see what yo
elizabeth: there must be something here i need to find, something suchong was
   
elizabeth: columbia...he knew about columbia. and-and booker, and...and me.
     
elizabeth: a lutece device. that's how he must have reopened the tear. look,
    
elizabeth: what hasn't happened yet? i told you, i can't do that any--

booker: c
elizabeth.

elizabeth: no! the doors are shut! they're--

[she has a flash of mem
elizabeth: no! the doors are shut! they're--

[she has a flash of memory: pulling
elizabeth: the lutece particle. i use the lutece particle. if it can make a
     
elizabeth: i can't open tears, but we could use this device to go to columbia
   
elizabeth: sure. you know, my tower didn't come stocked with the lutece device
  
elizabeth: yeah, i'll just--

booker: elizabeth. you will fix it.

elizabeth: oka
elizabeth. you will fix it.

elizabeth: okay...okay, there must be some informati
elizabeth: okay...okay, there must be some information around here.

[upstairs, a
elizabeth: these are elements -- sodium, titanium... why would these be on
      
elizabeth: it's right here. never underestimate the fallibility of the
          
elizabeth: that'll work. time to find those parts...and then i just have to
     
elizabeth, you saw yourself make this repair. you can do this.

elizabeth: whatev
elizabeth: whatever you say. guess we'd better find our way out of here. atlas,
 
elizabeth: i'm working on it. i'm gonna need some old man winter.

atlas: you mig
elizabeth: thanks.

atlas: think nothin' of it...but it's the last favor you'll b
elizabeth: i suppose you'd be suchong? save your ammunition, your device
        
elizabeth: actually, i intend to fix your device. that is, unless you plan on
   
elizabeth: i broke your code, didn't i? now, just give me the one to open that
  
elizabeth: your birthday?

suchong: enough talk. fix machine.

[the alarm shuts o
elizabeth: never underestimate the fallability of the egomaniac.

[liz returns to
elizabeth: old man winter. that's how we'll cool suchong's machine.

[she knocks 
elizabeth: atlas sent me here for some old man winter.

atlas follower: you haven
elizabeth: what makes you say that?

atlas follower: 'cause you're the only one o
elizabeth: there, that machine -- it'll have the cathode tube. got it. now we
   
elizabeth: just what we needed. all we need now is a co2 scrubber.

[while snoopi
elizabeth: hmph...looks like someone's been decrypting a code. "we've confirmed
 
elizabeth: where there's bathyspheres, there's bound to be co2 scrubbers...

book
elizabeth: if you don't remove the carbon dioxide from the air supply in a
      
elizabeth: i've seen all this happen before... i've seen it, everything, that
   
elizabeth: the debt.

booker: if that's what you wanna call it.

elizabeth: this.
elizabeth: this...atlas. i'm gonna have to kill him. either that or he'll
       
elizabeth: i'm not you, booker, some war hero. i'm not even me anymore. no
      
elizabeth: "the humpback whale"...this thing's as old as the hills. strictly
    
elizabeth: oh, a '52 mako. classic...but it's a deathtrap. twenty-eight known
   
elizabeth: there: the stingray. submersible time of ninety minutes...that's
     
elizabeth: the grease monkeys had to get it up there somehow. just gotta find
   
elizabeth: another coded message..."attempt to retrieve ace in the hole from
    
elizabeth: this is going to be noisy...

[she avoids the splicers and gets to the
elizabeth: got it. that was the last of it.

booker: now you think you can manage
elizabeth: sure, i've been fixing quantum field generators since kindergarten.

[
elizabeth: remind me: why am i supposed to care?

atlas: you see, me lads have ta
elizabeth: if you kill her, i hope you are truly happy living down here. put
    
elizabeth: "whereabouts of the foreign bitch scientist unknown. ryan presumes
   
elizabeth: "atlas, the heat is on. ryan knows something's up and is sending
     
elizabeth.]

booker: elizabeth...this poster. what's this all about?

elizabeth: 
elizabeth...this poster. what's this all about?

elizabeth: cohen. spent two mont
elizabeth: cohen. spent two months as his "discile" trying to get a line on
     
elizabeth: comstock had to know why. he had to know that he deserved it.

booker:
elizabeth: i suppose we all do...one way or another.

[she finds a strange counte
elizabeth: those bottles...just like on the coded note to fontaine...

[inside is
elizabeth: fontaine and atlas...son of a bitch...

[eventually, liz returns to th
elizabeth: now we won't immediately die of co2 poisoning the moment we turn
     
elizabeth: open sesame.

booker: what'd i tell you?

[liz enters the tear, reappe
elizabeth: booker, look...we're on the first lady.

[she goes to exit into the br
elizabeth: it can't be this easy. the first lady mk. ii was built around a
      
elizabeth: perfect.

booker: seems like a lotta technology just to float an airsh
elizabeth: the first lady mk. i did run on hydrogen and it was destroyed by
     
elizabeth: here we go. now let's head back through the tear.

booker: you honestl
elizabeth: no...but we'll cross that bridge when we come to it.

booker: how do y
elizabeth: he'll make a mistake. i just have to be ready to take advantage of
   
elizabeth: how well did you know me when you came to columbia?

[she returns to t
elizabeth: what? open the tear!

suchong: power for device very expensive. tit fo
elizabeth: just tell me what you want.

suchong: suchong want something simple. l
elizabeth: oh, you're not serious.

suchong: not your hair, stupid! fink has secr
elizabeth: where is his lab?

suchong: closed off, past fink's quarters. you smar
elizabeth: should have seen that one coming.

[the airship shakes.]

booker: vox 
elizabeth: that means the other you and i are probably still in the factory...
  
elizabeth: we won't.

booker: how do you know that?

elizabeth: because we didn't
elizabeth: because we didn't.

[liz sneaks toward fink's office, eavesdropping on
elizabeth: fink.

booker: what's that thing you just picked up?

elizabeth: my gu
elizabeth: my guess is it has something to do with that giant clock out there,
  
elizabeth: sort of...looks like the mechanism unlocks certain activities when
   
elizabeth: no, we've already found the key. we can manually wind it, open
       
elizabeth: yeah, well, if there's one thing fink loves, it's a lot of work.

[the
elizabeth: good. now to get that idiot his lock of hair.

[as she descends the el
elizabeth.]

daisy pa: my booker dewitt was a hero to the cause. a story to tell 
elizabeth: booker, you there? ...i miss you. you were the only one who ever...
  
elizabeth: could you humor me, then? ...please?

booker: i think...booker would m
elizabeth: daisy sacrificed herself...set me up to kill her, to-to turn
         
elizabeth: yeah, well, mission accomplished. i'm no martyr. how did you do it,
  
elizabeth...i'm not booker.

elizabeth: and neither am i.

[she infiltrates the s
elizabeth: and neither am i.

[she infiltrates the surgical wing.]

elizabeth: ha
elizabeth: hair sample in a haystack.

[there's a prototype big daddy suit in the
elizabeth: like the luteces. cross-reality collaboration.

[a projector nearby ha
elizabeth: it all makes a kind of sense...the little sisters and the big
        
elizabeth: imprinting. that's a wire mother. if you separate a gorilla from
     
elizabeth: songbird. he wanted him to imprint on me.

booker: well, if i recall, 
elizabeth: it's a skeletal formula for...oxytocin. that's the chemical that
     
elizabeth: apparently not. fink dismissed it as an unsuitable vector.

[a nearby 
elizabeth: these poor things. fink couldn't get them to imprint...so he left
    
elizabeth: "imprinting failed." that can't be right. clearly they formed a
      
elizabeth: i was so young, i...i always remember him just being there.

[through 
elizabeth: it must be a prototype or something.

booker: is it human?

elizabeth:
elizabeth: does it matter?

[a paper's nearby.]

elizabeth: they tried hypnothera
elizabeth: they tried hypnotherapy.

booker: on the songbird? how'd that go?

eli
elizabeth: about as well as you'd expect.

[in an abandoned room, liz finds foota
elizabeth: booker...the little girl in the film, its me. my god...i re--...i
    
elizabeth: i should have just left him there to die. i should have just... i
    
elizabeth: well, this must be the genetic sample suchong wanted.

booker: he sent
elizabeth: he doesn't know i was once the child that imprinted on songbird. but
 
elizabeth: do you think daisy really even had a choice?

booker: what do you mean
elizabeth: right about now, i'm planting a pair of scissors in her back to
      
elizabeth: and look where it got us. right back where it started. all these
     
elizabeth: my father sold me to settle a marker. comstock locked me up in a
     
elizabeth: and say we find her. the old pass their damage to the young. isn't
   
elizabeth: rapture runs on children. little girls with gold growing in their
    
elizabeth have already played
 their role: fink and daisy are dead, and the first
elizabeth: what's going on out there?

suchong: bloodshed...violence...but not re
elizabeth: suchong! suchong, we had a deal, now open--

[the lights come on as a 
elizabeth: i had a deal with suchong.

ryan: yi suchong is my employee. it was no
elizabeth: what do you want?

ryan: i granted atlas and his thugs asylum. you ser
elizabeth: i'm just looking for a girl that was taken from me. a little sister.


elizabeth: i'm not going anywhere without that girl.

ryan: if it's a little sist
elizabeth: i won't leave without her.

ryan: my men stand ready to take down the 
elizabeth: there must be a half a dozen of them or more. i've gotta get ready.
  
elizabeth. people always do.

ryan: forty seconds. you know what i see on your fa
elizabeth: i beat your sharks, ryan. the better man won. isn't that the only
    
elizabeth: i can't just place the particle on the ceiling, it would just tear
   
elizabeth: it looks like the structural junction is in frank fontaine's office.
 
elizabeth, you know atlas is going to--

elizabeth: i know...and i'm ready.

book
elizabeth: i know...and i'm ready.

booker: are you sure?

elizabeth: i sent myse
elizabeth: i sent myself here for a reason...didn't i?

ryan: and who exactly are
elizabeth: and what are you? my best friend?

ryan: you're one of a kind in this 
elizabeth: there, there, there. all the load-bearing colums come into this
      
elizabeth: well, here goes nothin'.

[the particle flies up to the ceiling and we
elizabeth: it's working, atlas, you feel that? now, you have your prison break.
 
elizabeth: oh, great...

atlas: didn't your mum teach you not to put your faith i
elizabeth: just give me the girl. she means nothing to you.

atlas: you've got th
elizabeth: what? what?

lonnie: where's the ace in the hole?

elizabeth: i don't.
elizabeth: i don't...i don't know what you're talking about. look, we had a
     
elizabeth: i told you, i don't--

[he shows her a syringe.]

lonnie: sodium thiop
elizabeth: i have nothing to tell you. i don't even know what an "ace in the
    
elizabeth: ...and men who make it.

[through her dream sequence, she can hear a r
elizabeth: uhn...what?

atlas: you've been down two weeks, love. feckin' doctors.
elizabeth: our deal was to get you out of prison. what, did you expect me to
    
elizabeth: i don't know what the ace--

atlas: as i said, i'm no doctor. but that
elizabeth: i hope you have someone to help you with all the big words.

atlas: yo
elizabeth: you're wasting your time.

atlas: now, if you won't remain still, i ca
elizabeth: i don't--

[he taps the pick, causing her vision to go blurry momentar
elizabeth: i don't know, alright?

atlas: you know what else rests in the lobe? c
elizabeth laughs, taking atlas aback.]

elizabeth: or what? what, you'll put a ho
elizabeth: or what? what, you'll put a hole in my head and take away my
         
elizabeth: no...please, let her go!

atlas: it's a simple matter. all i need to d
elizabeth: no...please... please, i don't know anything, i--

atlas: two taps--


elizabeth: i don't know anything!

atlas: better to show by example!

elizabeth: 
elizabeth: oh, please! please, don't, i-i don't know anything, i-i don't know!
  
elizabeth finds herself in a room with booker.]

booker: shhh...it's okay, it's o
elizabeth: i can't tell him what i don't know... where are we?

booker: you saw a
elizabeth: the ace in the hole. it's here?

booker: yes.

elizabeth: but...but, i
elizabeth: but...but, i don't...i don't remember this place.

booker: you've neve
elizabeth: well, then how would i--

booker: the memories you lost -- they weren'
elizabeth: even the ones into the future... this is where i'm going.

booker: if 
elizabeth: i-i don't like it here.

booker: it's a bad place.

elizabeth: he's ne
elizabeth: he's never gonna let me go, is he? even if i bring him the ace.
      
elizabeth: no, one day, he will just rip her open and tear out her adam...all
   
elizabeth: decide what?

booker: to take a leap of faith. i can't tell you what y
elizabeth: the ace. i don't know what to do, booker, i--

[he isn't in her subcon
elizabeth: booker? booker! no, please! pleaes, just don't leave me here!
        
elizabeth: suchong's clinic! it's at suchong's clinic.

atlas: that's a bit conve
elizabeth: that's right. which is why i'm gonna do it for you. you okay with
    
elizabeth: alright...let's see here...what we could do--

masha: scary!

leta: mr
elizabeth: look, it's...it's okay. he...he can't hurt anyone.

leta: scary...

[l
elizabeth: shhh...shhh... can you move?

[he jerks violently, but doesn't move.]

elizabeth: can you just move a little bit for me? don't...i don't know how to
   
elizabeth: no, he's...he's just hurt, he...he just needs somebody to figure out
 
elizabeth: right. look who i'm asking.

[she grabs one of suchong's notes nearby.
elizabeth: huh. encoded. "big daddy will not imprint. if not imprint, what good
 
elizabeth: "if stupid beasts had half brain, they would realize they need
       
elizabeth: i've gotta do something...

leta: big monster's sick.

elizabeth: it's
elizabeth: it's okay, please, i...i don't know how to help him. he needs adam.
  
elizabeth: the lion with the thorn in its paw.

[with the impediment gone, liz ca
elizabeth: "suchong -- of all the things i know, i know this. it is in your
     
elizabeth: there's the ace.

[she picks up a note in suchong's code.]

elizabeth:
elizabeth: this is it? this is the ace in the hole? all the pain and all of
     
elizabeth: i have it.

atlas: give it over, then. i'm keen to get this brat off m
elizabeth: you know what? andrew ryan said i was a rube. but he was wrong. i'm
  
elizabeth: it says...

[elsewhere, on an airplane, a man on an airplane opens a g
elizabeth: ..."would you kindly".